# Changes


## v2.4

Refactored `nexus.tools` API, for better programmatic usability of the tools.


## v2.3

- test on py 3.10
- synced docs and implementation


## v2.2

- fixed parsing of an unusual MrBayes format treefile.
- fixed logging error in write_to_nexus()

## v2.1

- fix minor bug with parsing of data/characters blocks.

## v2.0
- Refactored cli. The package now installs a **single** command `nexus`,
  providing several [subcommands](src/nexus/commands).
- Dropped python 2 compatibility.

## v1.7

- added rudimentary tree handling to `NexusWriter` objects:
  ```python        
  >>> nex = NexusWriter()
  >>> nex.trees.append("tree tree1 = (a,b);")
  ```    
- added the ability to combine nexuses containing trees

## v1.63

- fixed an issue where the bin directory wasn't packed on py2.7 (thanks @xrotwang)

## v1.62

- cached DataHandler's _characters_ property to speed up.
- cached DataHandler's _symbol_ property to speed up.
- cached DataHandler's site parser to speed up.

## v1.61

- fixed an install issue caused by refactoring.

## v1.6

- remove some over-engineered checking on the `NexusReader.DataMatrix.characters` property
- major refactoring of reader.py into a `handlers` subpackage
- `NexusReader.read_string` now returns self, such that it can be used as a factory-style method.
- added rudimentary support for taxon annotations in taxa blocks.

## v1.53:

- the character block format string `symbols` generated by
  `NexusReader.write()` no longer includes missing or gap symbols.
- fix parsing glitch in NexusReader.DataHandler.parse_format_line.

## v1.51:

- `characters` and `data` block now retain their character labels in `NexusReader`

## v1.5: 

- work around a minor bug in BEAST2 (https://github.com/CompEvol/beast2/issues/713)
- `characters` block is now added as `characters` and not invisibly renamed to `data`.

## v1.42

minor fix to remove a stray debugging print statement

## v1.41

minor fix to remove a stray debugging print statement

## v1.40

major speed enhancement in NexusReader -- a 2 order of magnitude decrease in reading most nexus data blocks.

## v1.35

fixed nexus_nexusmanip.py utility to handle multiple arguments, and to delete arbitrary sites.

## v1.34

fixed parsing of malformed taxa blocks.

## v1.33

fixed bug in taxa labels parser when taxa are listed on one line.

